# Supported tags and respective `Dockerfile` links

- [`latest`, `7.8` (*7.8/Dockerfile*)](https://github.com/darinmorrison/docker-haskell/blob/399ec9abffb3c86d6747d7ab5dc40556d6de9e4b/7.8/Dockerfile)

For more information about this image and its history, please see the [relevant
manifest file
(`library/haskell`)](https://github.com/docker-library/official-images/blob/master/library/haskell)
in the [`docker-library/official-images` GitHub
repo](https://github.com/docker-library/official-images).

# What is Haskell?

[Haskell](http://www.haskell.org) is a
[lazy](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Haskell/Laziness), functional,
statically-typed programming language with advanced type system features such as
higher-rank, higher-kinded parametric
[polymorphism](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Haskell/Polymorphism), monadic
[effects](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Haskell/Understanding_monads/IO),
generalized algebraic data types
([GADT](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Haskell/GADT)s), flexible [type
classes](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Haskell/Advanced_type_classes), associated
[type families](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Type_family), and more.

Haskell's [`ghc`](http://www.haskell.org/ghc) is a
[portable](https://ghc.haskell.org/trac/ghc/wiki/Platforms),
[optimizing](http://benchmarksgame.alioth.debian.org/u64q/haskell.php) compiler
with a foreign-function interface
([FFI](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Haskell/FFI)), an [LLVM
backend](https://www.haskell.org/ghc/docs/7.8.3/html/users_guide/code-generators.html),
and sophisticated runtime support for
[concurrency](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Haskell/Concurrency),
explicit/implicit [parallelism](http://community.haskell.org/~simonmar/pcph/),
runtime [profiling](http://www.haskell.org/haskellwiki/ThreadScope), etc. Other
Haskell tools like
[`criterion`](http://www.serpentine.com/criterion/tutorial.html),
[`quickcheck`](https://www.fpcomplete.com/user/pbv/an-introduction-to-quickcheck-testing),
[`hpc`](http://www.haskell.org/haskellwiki/Haskell_program_coverage#Examples),
and [`haddock`](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haddock_(software)) provide
advanced benchmarking, property-based testing, code coverage, and documentation
generation.

A large number of production-quality Haskell libraries are available from
[Hackage](https://hackage.haskell.org). The
[`cabal`](https://www.fpcomplete.com/user/simonmichael/how-to-cabal-install)
tool fetches packages and builds projects using the Hackage ecosystem.

![logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/docker-library/docs/master/haskell/logo.png)

## About this image

This image ships a minimal Haskell toolchain with the following packages:

* `ghc`
* `alex`
* `cabal-install`
* `happy`

## How to use this image

Start an interactive interpreter session with `ghci`:

    $ docker run -it --rm haskell:7.8
    GHCi, version 7.8.3: http://www.haskell.org/ghc/  :? for help
    Loading package ghc-prim ... linking ... done.
    Loading package integer-gmp ... linking ... done.
    Loading package base ... linking ... done.
    Prelude>

Dockerize a [Hackage](http://hackage.haskell.org) app with a Dockerfile
inheriting from the base image:

    FROM haskell:7.8
    RUN cabal update && cabal install MazesOfMonad
    VOLUME /root/.MazesOfMonad
    ENTRYPOINT ["/root/.cabal/bin/mazesofmonad"]

Iteratively develop then ship a Haskell app with a Dockerfile utilizing the
build cache:

    FROM haskell:7.8

    RUN cabal update

    # Add .cabal file
    ADD ./server/snap-example.cabal /opt/server/snap-example.cabal

    # Docker will cache this command as a layer, freeing us up to
    # modify source code without re-installing dependencies
    RUN cd /opt/server && cabal install --only-dependencies -j4

    # Add and Install Application Code
    ADD ./server /opt/server
    RUN cd /opt/server && cabal install

    # Add installed cabal executables to PATH
    ENV PATH /root/.cabal/bin:$PATH

    # Default Command for Container
    WORKDIR /opt/server
    CMD ["snap-example"]

### Examples

See the application snippet above in more detail in the [example snap
application](https://github.com/darinmorrison/docker-haskell/tree/master/examples/7.8.3/snap).

# License

This image is licensed under the MIT License (see
[LICENSE](https://github.com/darinmorrison/docker-haskell/blob/master/LICENSE)),
and includes software licensed under the
[Glasgow Haskell Compiler License](https://www.haskell.org/ghc/license)
(BSD-style).

# Supported Docker versions

This image is officially supported on Docker version 1.4.1.

Support for older versions (down to 1.0) is provided on a best-effort basis.

# User Feedback

## Issues

If you have any problems with or questions about this image, please contact us
 through a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/darinmorrison/docker-haskell/issues).

You can also reach many of the official image maintainers via the
`#docker-library` IRC channel on [Freenode](https://freenode.net).

## Contributing

You are invited to contribute new features, fixes, or updates, large or small;
we are always thrilled to receive pull requests, and do our best to process them
as fast as we can.

Before you start to code, we recommend discussing your plans
through a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/darinmorrison/docker-haskell/issues), especially for more ambitious
contributions. This gives other contributors a chance to point you in the right
direction, give you feedback on your design, and help you find out if someone
else is working on the same thing.
