# What is Memcached?

Memcached is a general-purpose distributed memory caching system. It is often
used to speed up dynamic database-driven websites by caching data and objects in
RAM to reduce the number of times an external data source (such as a database or
API) must be read.

Memcached's APIs provide a very large hash table distributed across multiple
machines. When the table is full, subsequent inserts cause older data to be
purged in least recently used order. Applications using Memcached typically
layer requests and additions into RAM before falling back on a slower backing
store, such as a database.

> [wikipedia.org/wiki/Memcached](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memcached)

# How to use this image

    docker run --name my-memcache -d memcached

Start your memcached container with the above command and then you can connect
you app to it with standard linking:

    docker run --link my-memcache:memcache -d my-app-image

The memcached server information would then be available through the ENV
variables generated by the link as well as through DNS as `memcache` from
`/etc/hosts`.

For infomation on configuring your memcached server, see the extensive [wiki](https://code.google.com/p/memcached/wiki/NewStart).

# Known Issues

As of 1.4.21, memcached does not handle `SIGTERM`, so a standard `docker stop`
will not stop it gracefully, but will resort to `SIGKILL` after the 10 second
timeout.  Use `docker kill -s INT` to do a clean stop of the memcached
container.  There is [a PR](https://github.com/memcached/memcached/pull/88) to
change this behavior upstream.
