# Supported tags and respective `Dockerfile` links

- [`1.4.22`, `1.4`, `1`, `latest` (*Dockerfile*)](https://github.com/docker-library/memcached/blob/5fb6459a1eb138dcd9cfcd5fa1aef62ee511d335/Dockerfile)

For more information about this image and its history, please see the [relevant
manifest file
(`library/memcached`)](https://github.com/docker-library/official-images/blob/master/library/memcached)
in the [`docker-library/official-images` GitHub
repo](https://github.com/docker-library/official-images).

# What is Memcached?

Memcached is a general-purpose distributed memory caching system. It is often
used to speed up dynamic database-driven websites by caching data and objects in
RAM to reduce the number of times an external data source (such as a database or
API) must be read.

Memcached's APIs provide a very large hash table distributed across multiple
machines. When the table is full, subsequent inserts cause older data to be
purged in least recently used order. Applications using Memcached typically
layer requests and additions into RAM before falling back on a slower backing
store, such as a database.

> [wikipedia.org/wiki/Memcached](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memcached)

# How to use this image

    docker run --name my-memcache -d memcached

Start your memcached container with the above command and then you can connect
you app to it with standard linking:

    docker run --link my-memcache:memcache -d my-app-image

The memcached server information would then be available through the ENV
variables generated by the link as well as through DNS as `memcache` from
`/etc/hosts`.

For infomation on configuring your memcached server, see the extensive [wiki](https://code.google.com/p/memcached/wiki/NewStart).

# License

View [license
information](https://github.com/memcached/memcached/blob/master/LICENSE) for the
software contained in this image.

# Supported Docker versions

This image is officially supported on Docker version 1.4.1.

Support for older versions (down to 1.0) is provided on a best-effort basis.

# User Feedback

## Issues

If you have any problems with or questions about this image, please contact us
 through a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/docker-library/memcached/issues).

You can also reach many of the official image maintainers via the
`#docker-library` IRC channel on [Freenode](https://freenode.net).

## Contributing

You are invited to contribute new features, fixes, or updates, large or small;
we are always thrilled to receive pull requests, and do our best to process them
as fast as we can.

Before you start to code, we recommend discussing your plans
through a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/docker-library/memcached/issues), especially for more ambitious
contributions. This gives other contributors a chance to point you in the right
direction, give you feedback on your design, and help you find out if someone
else is working on the same thing.
