# Supported tags and respective `Dockerfile` links

- [`4.1.0`, `4.1`, `4`, `latest` (*Dockerfile*)](https://github.com/docker-library/wordpress/blob/990b1b00b8ca4903e11e53e908b1996fbaab3c1a/Dockerfile)

For more information about this image and its history, please see the [relevant
manifest file
(`library/wordpress`)](https://github.com/docker-library/official-images/blob/master/library/wordpress)
in the [`docker-library/official-images` GitHub
repo](https://github.com/docker-library/official-images).

# What is WordPress?

WordPress is a free and open source blogging tool and a content management
system (CMS) based on PHP and MySQL, which runs on a web hosting service.
Features include a plugin architecture and a template system. WordPress is used
by more than 22.0% of the top 10 million websites as of August 2013. WordPress
is the most popular blogging system in use on the Web, at more than 60 million
websites. The most popular languages used are English, Spanish and Bahasa
Indonesia.

> [wikipedia.org/wiki/WordPress](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WordPress)

![logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/docker-library/docs/master/wordpress/logo.png)

# How to use this image

    docker run --name some-wordpress --link some-mysql:mysql -d wordpress

The following environment variables are also honored for configuring your
WordPress instance:

 - `-e WORDPRESS_DB_USER=...` (defaults to "root")
 - `-e WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD=...` (defaults to the value of the `MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD` environment variable from the linked mysql container)
 - `-e WORDPRESS_DB_NAME=...` (defaults to "wordpress")
 - `-e WORDPRESS_AUTH_KEY=...`, `-e WORDPRESS_SECURE_AUTH_KEY=...`, `-e WORDPRESS_LOGGED_IN_KEY=...`, `-e WORDPRESS_NONCE_KEY=...`, `-e WORDPRESS_AUTH_SALT=...`, `-e WORDPRESS_SECURE_AUTH_SALT=...`, `-e WORDPRESS_LOGGED_IN_SALT=...`, `-e WORDPRESS_NONCE_SALT=...` (default to unique random SHA1s)

If the `WORDPRESS_DB_NAME` specified does not already exist in the given MySQL
container,  it will be created automatically upon container startup, provided
that the `WORDPRESS_DB_USER` specified has the necessary permissions to create
it.

If you'd like to be able to access the instance from the host without the
container's IP, standard port mappings can be used:

    docker run --name some-wordpress --link some-mysql:mysql -p 8080:80 -d wordpress

Then, access it via `http://localhost:8080` or `http://host-ip:8080` in a
browser.

# Supported Docker versions

This image is officially supported on Docker version 1.4.1.

Support for older versions (down to 1.0) is provided on a best-effort basis.

# User Feedback

## Issues

If you have any problems with or questions about this image, please contact us
 through a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/docker-library/wordpress/issues).

You can also reach many of the official image maintainers via the
`#docker-library` IRC channel on [Freenode](https://freenode.net).

## Contributing

You are invited to contribute new features, fixes, or updates, large or small;
we are always thrilled to receive pull requests, and do our best to process them
as fast as we can.

Before you start to code, we recommend discussing your plans
through a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/docker-library/wordpress/issues), especially for more ambitious
contributions. This gives other contributors a chance to point you in the right
direction, give you feedback on your design, and help you find out if someone
else is working on the same thing.
