# Tags and `Dockerfile` links

- [`latest` (*Dockerfile*)](https://github.com/Quantisan/docker-clojure/blob/30ed1b891ea059a33ca56f04ecf6f467bbbd2362/Dockerfile)

What is Clojure?

Clojure is a dialect of the Lisp programming language created by Rich Hickey. Clojure is
a general-purpose programming language with an emphasis on functional programming. It
runs on the Java Virtual Machine, Common Langauge Runtime, and JavaScript engines. Like
other Lisps, Clojure treats code as data and has a macro system.

> More information: [wikipedia.org/wiki/Clojure](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clojure)

# How to use this image

## Start a Lein/Clojure instance in your app.

Since the most common way to use Clojure is in conjunction with
[lein](http://leiningen.org/), this image assumes that's how you'll be working. The most
straightforward way to use this image is to add a Dockerfile to an existing
Lein/Clojure project.

    FROM clojure
    COPY . /usr/src/app
    WORKDIR /usr/src/app
    CMD ["lein", "run"]

Then, run these commands to build and run the image.

    docker build -t my-clojure-app .
    docker run -it --rm --name my-running-app my-clojure-app

While the above is the most straightforward example of a Dockerfile, it does have some
drawbacks. The `lein run` command will download your dependencies, compile the project,
and then run it. That's a lot of work, all of which you may not want done every time you
run the image. To get around this, we can download the dependencies and compile the
project ahead of time. This will significantly reduce startup time when you run your
image.

    FROM clojure
    RUN mkdir -p /usr/src/app
    WORKDIR /usr/src/app
    COPY project.clj /usr/src/app/
    RUN lein deps
    COPY . /usr/src/app
    RUN mv "$(lein uberjar | sed -n 's/^Created \(.*standalone\.jar\)/\1/p')" app-standalone.jar
    CMD ["java", "-jar", "app-standalone.jar"]

Writing the Dockerfile this way will download the dependencies (and cache them, so they
are only re-downloaded when the dependencies change) and then compile them into a standalone jar ahead of time rather than each time the image is run.

You can then build and run the image as above.

## Compile your Lein/Clojure project into a jar from within the container.

If you have an existing Lein/Clojure project, it's fairly straightforward to compile your
project into a jar from a container.

    docker run -it --rm -v "$(pwd)":/usr/src/app -w /usr/src/app clojure lein uberjar

This will build your project into a jar file located in your project's `target/uberjar`
directory.

# User Feedback

## Issues

If you have any questions about the image, please contact us through a [GitHub
issue](https://github.com/Quantisan/docker-clojure/issues) or in the IRC channel
`#docker-library` on [Freenode](https://freenode.net).

## Contributing

If you want to contribute new features or updates, we are always thrilled to receive pull
requests, and do our best to process them as fast as possible.

We recommend discussing your plans through a [GitHub
issue](https://github.com/Quantisan/docker-clojure/issues) before starting to code,
especially for more ambitious contributions. This gives other contributors a chance to
point you in the right direction, give feedback on your design, and maybe point out if
someone else is working on the same thing.

